README.md, before:

# Deneb Web3Signer Besu Teku test

Based on
https://github.com/siladu/beku-timestamp which is a fork of
https://github.com/rolfyone/playground/tree/main/capella/beku
(which is based on https://github.com/ajsutton/merge-scripts/tree/main/beku)

### Start Web3Signer
See [web3signer](./web3signer/README.md) for more details.

### Start grafana and prometheus monitoring
See [monitoring](./monitoring/README.md) for more details.


- Checkout the branch of [besu](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu) or [teku](https://github.com/ConsenSys/teku) you want to test, build them respectively with `./gradlew installDist`
- Update `config.sh` with home locations of Besu, Teku generated builds. For example:

```shell
BESU_HOME=$HOME/work/besu/build/install/besu
TEKU_HOME=$HOME/work/teku/build/install/teku
```

## Setup
### Teku Mock Genesis

1. Run `setup.sh`. This will generate Teku's mock genesis ssz with genesis time to 60 seconds from now. It 
will also update Besu's `execution-genesis.json` with `shanghaiTime` and `cancunTime` 24 seconds apart from genesis to 
simulate fork transition. You should see an output similar to:
```
********************
TEKU Genesis : 1695102574
BESU Shanghai: 1695102598
BESU Cancun/Deneb: 1695102622
********************
Generating mock genesis state for 256 validators at genesis time 1695102574
Saving genesis state to file: /Users/user/work/beku/beku-genesis.ssz
Genesis state file saved: /Users/user/work/beku/beku-genesis.ssz
```

## Start Besu and Teku

1. Run `startBesu.sh`. We need to start Besu before Teku so that we can read the genesis hash block.
2. Run `startTeku.sh`. This script will internally call `teku/update-genesis-hash.sh` which will update `genesis-header.json` 
file with genesis root hash. This allows Teku to use genesis root hash from our provided file.

## Testing
1. Using Nethermind SendBlobs https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/tree/master/tools/SendBlobs
```
docker run --rm -it send-blobs \
 --rpcurl http://host.docker.internal:8545 \
 --bloboptions 5 \
 --privatekey 0x8f2a55949038a9610f50fb23b5883af3b4ecb3c3bb792cbcefbd1542c692be63 \
 --receiveraddress 0x627306090abaB3A6e1400e9345bC60c78a8BEf57 \
 --maxfeeperdatagas 10000 \
 --feemultiplier 4
```

## Cleanup
1. Terminate Web3Signer, Besu and Teku if they are running i.e. CTRL+C or `docker compose down` where needed. 
2. Run `cleanup.sh` to clean artifacts of these scripts.

Commit message:

Add besu and teku interop docker compose file

README.md, after:

# Deneb Web3Signer Besu Teku test

Based on
https://github.com/siladu/beku-timestamp which is a fork of
https://github.com/rolfyone/playground/tree/main/capella/beku
(which is based on https://github.com/ajsutton/merge-scripts/tree/main/beku)

### Start Web3Signer
See [web3signer](./web3signer/README.md) for more details.

### Start grafana and prometheus monitoring
See [monitoring](./monitoring/README.md) for more details.

**Besu and Teku docker compose scripts are in progress. Following instructions are for manual start.**

### Start Teku and Besu
- Checkout the branch of [besu](https://github.com/hyperledger/besu) or [teku](https://github.com/ConsenSys/teku) you want to test, build them respectively with `./gradlew installDist`
- Update `config.sh` with home locations of Besu, Teku generated builds. For example:

```shell
BESU_HOME=$HOME/work/besu/build/install/besu
TEKU_HOME=$HOME/work/teku/build/install/teku
```

## Setup
### Teku Mock Genesis

1. Run `setup.sh`. This will generate Teku's mock genesis ssz with genesis time to 60 seconds from now. It 
will also update Besu's `execution-genesis.json` with `shanghaiTime` and `cancunTime` 24 seconds apart from genesis to 
simulate fork transition. You should see an output similar to:
```
********************
TEKU Genesis : 1695102574
BESU Shanghai: 1695102598
BESU Cancun/Deneb: 1695102622
********************
Generating mock genesis state for 256 validators at genesis time 1695102574
Saving genesis state to file: /Users/user/work/beku/beku-genesis.ssz
Genesis state file saved: /Users/user/work/beku/beku-genesis.ssz
```

## Start Besu and Teku

1. Run `startBesu.sh`. We need to start Besu before Teku so that we can read the genesis hash block.
2. Run `startTeku.sh`. This script will internally call `teku/update-genesis-hash.sh` which will update `genesis-header.json` 
file with genesis root hash. This allows Teku to use genesis root hash from our provided file.

## Testing
1. Using Nethermind SendBlobs https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/tree/master/tools/SendBlobs
```
docker run --rm -it send-blobs \
 --rpcurl http://host.docker.internal:8545 \
 --bloboptions 5 \
 --privatekey 0x8f2a55949038a9610f50fb23b5883af3b4ecb3c3bb792cbcefbd1542c692be63 \
 --receiveraddress 0x627306090abaB3A6e1400e9345bC60c78a8BEf57 \
 --maxfeeperdatagas 10000 \
 --feemultiplier 4
```

## Cleanup
1. Terminate Web3Signer, Besu and Teku if they are running i.e. CTRL+C or `docker compose down` where needed. 
2. Run `cleanup.sh` to clean artifacts of these scripts.
